# Abdominoplasty - Fleur de Lis method

Procedure is dedicated for patients with excess skin folds in the hypogastrium (underbelly) area - most commonly for patients after an intensive weight loss period and for women after pregnancy with slack skin covered with stretch marks.

The procedure is performed under general anesthesia or subarachnoid anesthesia (spinal block). The procedure always starts with liposuction. After the suction the surgeon makes an incision in the hypogastrium (incision should be located in the lowest possible spot based on the measurements of the junction of the large pudendal lip in the centerline of the belly), dissects the skin and the subcutaneous tissue from the abdominal aponeurosis on the level of omphalus, which he/she later cuts out from the skin layer but leaves attached to the lower tissues and finally dissects a tunnel in the shape of an Eiffel Tower reaching the xiphoid process. Such an exposure of abdominal layers makes it possible to fix ruptures (hernia) and stitch abdominal muscles (rectus abdominis) together (such a deformity could be observed in almost every woman’s body after pregnancy). Dissected skin is stretched in the direction of the pubic symphysis. Excess of skin and subcutaneous tissue is removed. Omphalus is being located in a new spot. Drains remain in the sutured wound. A long scar is located in the underbelly area and could be hidden in the underwear. Another scar is formed around the omphalus. After the surgery the patient could walk bent for some time due to the pressure and tension in the relocated skin parts.

People after huge weight loss usually require abdominoplasty in order to remove the excess skin and fat tissue in the central part of abdominal layers (from the sternum to the pubic symphysis). Such procedure is called Abdominoplasty - Fleur de Lis method. It leaves a vertical scar ranging from the sternum to the pubic symphysis and another transverse scar in the underbelly. In such cases a maximal reduction of the size of the pubic symphysis is also performed.

The patient is supposed to wear a special abdominal belt for 2 months after the procedure. The patient should also avoid manual effort, hefting and lifting for 3 months.

Patient could get back to work after 2 weeks (only if the job does not require manual effort).
